# CFD-for-Biomimetics
ABSTRACT--
Drag is a true annoyance for many industrial sectors around the world. Drag force is produced by the friction of a flowing fluid flowing on the surface that lowers the energy efficiency of the system. This experiment attempts to minimize the drag force by testing theoretical biomimetic coatings. This approach was proven efficient using the digital method known as Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) for solving this fluid-flow problem. The morphological structures of different organisms were modeled using software tools such as Salome, OpenFOAM, and ParaView for further comparison.


INTRODUCTION--
Drag is an invisible resistive force that challenges the performance of various industrial sectors. In the scientific world, drag measures the system's energy efficiency in reference to the surface topography and the rate of the flowing fluid. Flat surfaces are observed to cause flow instabilities, thereby increasing the friction (drag). This experimentation is an attempt to adopt nature's microscopic deformities as a surface coating to reduce drag (Fig.1.1). The morphological structures of biological organisms (Tetrodontophora Bielanensis, Rosaceae, and Morpho Peleides) were modeled using software tools such as Salome, OpenFOAM, and ParaView. Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) was a digital method that was applied to solve this fluid-flow problem. Results indicated that streamlined surfaces are better at vortex shedding compared to planar surfaces. Vortex shedding avoids producing flow instabilities by creating a lower pressure region for more energy. By varying the velocity of the upcoming fluid and patterns of the morphological structures, the drag force reduced significantly (NASA Glenn Research Center, 2015). Comparatively, researchers have altered the geometric models in macroscopic applications such as automobiles, planes, and swimsuits. By modifying the surface topography on a microscopic scale, drag reduction will prevent the adhesion of fluid-like particles on the surface. This biomimetic approach is environmentally-friendly, efficient, biodegradable, and copiously available.
